---
slug: desktop-launch
title: Desktop launch
authors: [zane]
tags: [announcements]
---

## Introduction

After countless requests for a desktop application, the first version of WG Tunnel for desktop is now available!

## Motivations

The primary motivation for creating WG Tunnel for desktop was the staggering amount of user requests I received for 
creating such an app. One of the goals of this project is for the features to be driven by users. Due to these requests, 
I decided to take on this very challenging endeavor, with a focus on Linux and Windows support (with macOS to follow). 

Secondary motivations were twofold:
- I also found myself wanting a more robust WireGuard client, specifically for Linux.
- For WG Tunnel to truly become one of the best clients for WireGuard, it was inevitable that it needed to expand beyond
the scope of being an Android-only application.

## Managing Expectations

All things considered, it is important to manage expectations for WG Tunnel on desktop. I spent 
countless hours over a roughly three-month period to create the first version of this app. This first version is relatively
simple and not as feature-rich as the Android app. This is due to the challenging nature of desktop (and especially
VPN clients on desktop). Coupled with supporting multiple platforms in the first version, this was no trivial task.

It is also important to consider that features and releases will be much slower for desktop than for Android. There are
a lot more moving parts on desktop to make a VPN client work and supporting multiple desktop platforms further increases
the development and testing burden. 

## Conclusion

All of that being said, I will continue to work hard to add features and improvements to
this app as time progresses and my schedule allows.

Thank you for your continued support of this project. 

Zane

---

### Links

[Source code](https://github.com/wgtunnel/desktop)


